= 4.0 =

== Better method names ==

Methods have been renamed to comply with PEP 8. The old names still
work. Here are the renames:

 * findAll -> find_all
 * findAllNext -> find_all_next
 * findAllPrevious -> find_all_previous
 * findNext -> find_next
 * findNextSibling -> find_next_sibling
 * findNextSiblings -> find_next_siblings
 * findParent -> find_parent
 * findParents -> find_parents
 * findPrevious -> find_previous
 * findPreviousSibling -> find_previous_sibling
 * findPreviousSiblings -> find_previous_siblings

Some attributes have also been renamed:

 * Tag.isSelfClosing -> Tag.is_empty_element

So have some arguments to popular methods:

 * BeautifulSoup(parseOnlyThese=...) -> BeautifulSoup(parse_only=...)
 * BeautifulSoup(fromEncoding=...) -> BeautifulSoup(from_encoding=...)
 * Tag.encode(prettyPrint=...) -> Tag.encode(pretty_print=...)

== Generators are now properties ==

The generators have been given more sensible (and PEP 8-compliant)
names, and turned into properties:

 * childGenerator() -> children
 * nextGenerator() -> next_elements
 * nextSiblingGenerator() -> next_siblings
 * previousGenerator() -> previous_elements
 * previousSiblingGenerator() -> previous_siblings
 * recursiveChildGenerator() -> recursive_children
 * parentGenerator() -> parents

So instead of this:

 for parent in tag.parentGenerator():
     ...

You can write this:

 for parent in tag.parents:
     ...

(But the old code will still work.)

== tag.string is recursive ==

tag.string now operates recursively. If tag A contains a single tag B
and nothing else, then A.string is the same as B.string. So:

<a><b>foo</b></a>

The value of a.string used to be None, and now it's "foo".

== Empty-element tags ==

Beautiful Soup's handling of empty-element tags (aka self-closing
tags) has been improved, especially when parsing XML. Previously you
had to explicitly specify a list of empty-element tags when parsing
XML. You can still do that, but if you don't, Beautiful Soup now
considers any empty tag to be an empty-element tag.

The determination of empty-element-ness is now made at runtime rather
than parse time. If you add a child to an empty-element tag, it stops
being an empty-element tag.

== Entities are always converted to Unicode ==

An HTML or XML entity is always converted into the corresponding
Unicode character. There are no longer any smartQuotesTo or
convert_entities arguments. (Unicode Dammit still has smart_quotes_to,
but the default is now to turn smart quotes into Unicode.)

== CDATA sections are normal text, if they're understood at all. ==

Currently, both HTML parsers ignore CDATA sections in markup:

 <p><![CDATA[foo]]></p> => <p></p>

A future version of html5lib will turn CDATA sections into text nodes,
but only within tags like <svg> and <math>:

 <svg><![CDATA[foo]]></svg> => <p>foo</p>

The default XML parser (which uses lxml behind the scenes) turns CDATA
sections into ordinary text elements:

 <p><![CDATA[foo]]></p> => <p>foo</p>

In theory it's possible to preserve the CDATA sections when using the
XML parser, but I don't see how to get it to work in practice.

== Miscellaneous other stuff ==

If the BeautifulSoup instance has .is_xml set to True, an appropriate
XML declaration will be emitted when the tree is transformed into a
string:

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8">
    <markup>
     ...
    </markup>

The ['lxml', 'xml'] tree builder sets .is_xml to True; the other tree
builders set it to False. If you want to parse XHTML with an HTML
parser, you can set it manually.

= 3.1.0 =

A hybrid version that supports 2.4 and can be automatically converted
to run under Python 3.0. There are three backwards-incompatible
changes you should be aware of, but no new features or deliberate
behavior changes.

1. str() may no longer do what you want. This is because the meaning
of str() inverts between Python 2 and 3; in Python 2 it gives you a
byte string, in Python 3 it gives you a Unicode string.

The effect of this is that you can't pass an encoding to .__str__
anymore. Use encode() to get a string and decode() to get Unicode, and
you'll be ready (well, readier) for Python 3.

2. Beautiful Soup is now based on HTMLParser rather than SGMLParser,
which is gone in Python 3. There's some bad HTML that SGMLParser
handled but HTMLParser doesn't, usually to do with attribute values
that aren't closed or have brackets inside them:

  <a href="foo</a>, </a><a href="bar">baz</a>
  <a b="<a>">', '<a b="&lt;a&gt;"></a><a>"></a>

A later version of Beautiful Soup will allow you to plug in different
parsers to make tradeoffs between speed and the ability to handle bad
HTML.

3. In Python 3 (but not Python 2),HTMLParser converts entities within
attributes to the corresponding Unicode characters. In Python 2 it's
possible to parse this string and leave the &eacute; intact.

 <a href="http://crummy.com?sacr&eacute;&bleu">

In Python 3, the &eacute; is always converted to \xe9 during
parsing.


= 3.0.7a =

Added an import that makes BS work in Python 2.3.


= 3.0.7 =

Fixed a UnicodeDecodeError when unpickling documents that contain
non-ASCII characters.

Fixed a TypeError that occured in some circumstances when a tag
contained no text.

Jump through hoops to avoid the use of chardet, which can be extremely
slow in some circumstances. UTF-8 documents should never trigger the
use of chardet.

Whitespace is preserved inside <pre> and <textarea> tags that contain
nothing but whitespace.

Beautiful Soup can now parse a doctype that's scoped to an XML namespace.


= 3.0.6 =

Got rid of a very old debug line that prevented chardet from working.

Added a Tag.decompose() method that completely disconnects a tree or a
subset of a tree, breaking it up into bite-sized pieces that are
easy for the garbage collecter to collect.

Tag.extract() now returns the tag that was extracted.

Tag.findNext() now does something with the keyword arguments you pass
it instead of dropping them on the floor.

Fixed a Unicode conversion bug.

Fixed a bug that garbled some <meta> tags when rewriting them.


= 3.0.5 =

Soup objects can now be pickled, and copied with copy.deepcopy.

Tag.append now works properly on existing BS objects. (It wasn't
originally intended for outside use, but it can be now.) (Giles
Radford)

Passing in a nonexistent encoding will no longer crash the parser on
Python 2.4 (John Nagle).

Fixed an underlying bug in SGMLParser that thinks ASCII has 255
characters instead of 127 (John Nagle).

Entities are converted more consistently to Unicode characters.

Entity references in attribute values are now converted to Unicode
characters when appropriate. Numeric entities are always converted,
because SGMLParser always converts them outside of attribute values.

ALL_ENTITIES happens to just be the XHTML entities, so I renamed it to
XHTML_ENTITIES.

The regular expression for bare ampersands was too loose. In some
cases ampersands were not being escaped. (Sam Ruby?)

Non-breaking spaces and other special Unicode space characters are no
longer folded to ASCII spaces. (Robert Leftwich)

Information inside a TEXTAREA tag is now parsed literally, not as HTML
tags. TEXTAREA now works exactly the same way as SCRIPT. (Zephyr Fang)


= 3.0.4 =

Fixed a bug that crashed Unicode conversion in some cases.

Fixed a bug that prevented UnicodeDammit from being used as a
general-purpose data scrubber.

Fixed some unit test failures when running against Python 2.5.

When considering whether to convert smart quotes, UnicodeDammit now
looks at the original encoding in a case-insensitive way.
